Hello, everyone.
My name is Yining.
I am an adjunct professor at New York University.
I work on ml5.js,
a friendly machine learning JavaScript library.
In this talk, I will make a brief introduction
to ml5.js, how it's built
and discuss some challenges in the development process.
Slide two.
slide-2
Ml5.js aims to make machine learning more approachable
to a broad audience of artists, designers,
creative coders and students.
The library provides access
to machine learning algorithms
and models in the browser,
building on top of TensorFlow.js
with no other external dependencies.
Ml5.js is inspired by Processing and P5.js,
whose goal is to empower people
of all interests and backgrounds
to learn how to program
and make creative work with code.
However, to get started with machine learning,
one needs advanced understanding
of math and programming.
And we'd like to make this process easier
so that machine learning can be something
that everyone can learn,
understand and explore freely.
Slide three.
slide-3
What does ml5.js do?
It provides immediate access
to pre-trained models in the browser
and we can also build and train our own neural networks
in the browser from scratch.
Slide four.
slide-4
Here is an example of MobileNet,
object detection model running in the browser
with just a few lines of code.
Slide five.
slide-5
Here is an example of running PoseNet
to detect human poses.
Ml5.js also provides friendly API
to get access to more human-readable results
and draw those results on the canvas with,
for example, p5.js.
Slide six.
slide-6
This is an example of running Style Transfer model
with your webcam in real time.
Slide seven.
slide-7
Besides running pre-trained models,
we can also create our own neutral networks with ml5.js.
This is a demo of how we can create a neural network
that classifies RGB values into common color names.
With ml5.js, we can load the data,
create model, train it and run the model.
With the debug mode enabled,
ml5.js can also visualize the training progress
on the right-hand side.
It helps us to debug and improve our neural network.
Slide eight.
slide-8
Here is a collection of other models
and methods that ml5.js provides.
You can learn more about them on the ml5 website.
Ml5 has a wide collection of image,
sound and text-based models
with a variety of applications,
such as detecting objects,
human bodies, hand poses and faces,
generating text, images and drawings,
implementing image translations,
classifying audios, detecting pitch
and analyzing words and sentences.
Ml5.js also provides NeuralNetwork, FeatureExtractor,
KNNClassifier and KMeans as helper functions.
Slide nine.
slide-9
How do I use ml5.js?
Slide 10.
slide-10
We can run a model in the browser
with ml5.js in three simple steps.
First, create a model.
Secondly, ask the model to classify
or predict something based on a input,
like an image or a text.
And step three, getting the results.
It also has great integration with p5.js,
a JavaScript library for creating graphics
and animations in the browser,
which makes it easier to get inputs
from webcam or microphones
and also to show the outputs
with canvas, image or audio.
Slide 11.
slide-11
How is ml5.js built?
Slide 12.
slide-12
Besides the core library,
the ml5.js project also includes examples,
documentations, guides for training
and data collection,
learning materials for workshops and courses.
Slide 13.
slide-13
Ml5.js extends the functionality of tf.js.
It uses tf.js models, data API,
layer API and the face API.
Under the hood, it utilizes the CPU, WebGL,
or WebAssembly in the browser.
Ml5.js provides a high-level
and beginner-friendly API to users.
Slide 14.
slide-14
Web applications are very accessible.
There are a lot of web applications made
by the ml5.js community.
Here are a few examples.
A Whac-A-Mole game that you can play
with your webcam, a flying game
where you can control your characters with your voice,
an interactive story reading experiments
that uses your voice as input
to generate stories and drawings.
There are many more applications built with ml5.js
that you can find at its community page.
People find the low effort
in using existing browser API desirable.
For example, using webcam and microphones
with the ability of rendering output easily
to image, canvas, audio or text elements on the DOM.
So they're perfect for creative projects.
Slide 15.
slide-15
Webcam video, audio and mouse interactions
are often used as input to models
and the conversion between those formats
is often a multi-step process.
Therefore, having native support
for converting browser I/O streams
to model inputs and vice versa
would be very helpful.
For example, TensorFlow.js models support HTML video
or image elements as model inputs.
Slide 16.
slide-16
In the progress of porting models into ml5.js,
the first thing to consider is the model size.
It needs to be small enough
so we can load it into the browser.
Secondly, to support real-time interaction
in the browser, the model needs to have low latency.
The last thing is the model format.
It should be portable to the web.
Here is a common workflow
of porting a pre-trained model into ml5.js.
A model from a machine learning research paper
might be implemented in other frameworks, like PyTorch.
So first, we need to implement the model in TensorFlow
and train the model.
Then we convert the model into tf.js format
with tf.js converter.
And lastly, port it into ml5.js
to provide high-level API to users.
Here, the first step, which is implementing the model
in TensorFlow and train it
is the most time-consuming step
and not all the operations are supported
between different machine learning frameworks.
Therefore, it will be very helpful
to have a standard model format for the web
or have a tool that can make this step easier.
ONNX project is making the conversion
between different machine learning frameworks easier.
Slide 17.
slide-17
Here are some more links about ml5.js.
That's all from me.
Thank you so much for watching.